Add clarity to HA vs. Hassio vs. HassOS question (#10805)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_faq/ha-vs-hassio.markdown

---
title: "Home Assistant vs. Hass.io vs. HassOS"
description: "Home Assistant vs. Hass.io vs. HassOS"
ha_category: Installation
---

> Home Assistant is a Python program and is run via various [Installation Methods](https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/installation/).  The home assistant Python program is the core of the Home Assistant project that is used to observe, control and automate the devices in your home.  

Reviewer: Besides adding a spelling error, I don't see any added value to this change.
I would suggest on reverting this part.

> [Hass.io](https://www.home-assistant.io/hassio/) is a Docker-based system for managing your Home Assistant installation and related applications. Hass.io is an all-in one-solution and has a management user interface that can be used from the Home Assistant frontend. This interface is not present in a standalone setup of Home Assistant. Hass.io can also utilize [Add-ons](https://www.home-assistant.io/addons/) to extend the functionality around Home Assistant. Hass.io can be [installed on compatiable linux distribution](https://www.home-assistant.io/hassio/installation/#alternative-install-on-a-generic-linux-host) running docker or is part of the HassOS installation method.  

Reviewer: This paragraph now contains a ton of information and is hard to read. Consider changing it to make it less wordy.

Besides that, I'm not sure if starting with `is a Docker-based` helps the new user. He/She might be instantly confused. It is probably better to move that later into the explanation.

`This interface is not present in a standalone setup of Home Assistant` -> Also not present in Docker-based systems or Hassbian. Maybe it is clearer to state it is only available on Hass.io installations?

`Hass.io can be installed on compatiable linux distribution running docker or is part of the HassOS installation method. `

The running Docker part might be confusing here. So what is HassOS in this case? It is explained lower, but "part of" sounds a bit weird to me in this context.

> [HassOS](https://github.com/home-assistant/hassos) is a Operating System specifcally deisgned to run Hass.io.  The whole system is optimized for the embedded system, security and allows for seamless updates of the underlying Operating System and Hass.io.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[HassOS](https://github.com/home-assistant/hassos) is an Operating System specifically designed to run Hass.io.  The whole system is optimized for speed, security and allows for seamless, single-click, updates of the underlying HassOS Operating System, Hass.io, add-ons and Home Assistant itself.
```
